<!-- cargo-rdme start -->

# Proof Verifier Example Application

This example application implements a simple proof verification contract for PLONK
proof generated using [Sphinx](https://github.com/argumentcomputer/sphinx).
The current proofs used for testing are proofs generated by the [
`zk-light-clients`](https://github.com/argumentcomputer/zk-light-clients/)
repository.

# How It Works

It is a very basic Linera application, which is initialized with a verifying key corresponding
to the program that generated the proof. The state also has a boolean value initialized
to `false`.

The first step to get the proof verified is to publish it on the network as a blob and
get its corresponding hash. Once it is done, running the `verify` mutation along
with the corresponding blob hash will verify the proof and set the state `bool` value
to true if everything went well.

# Usage

## Setting Up

Before getting started, we need to make sure that the correct linera binaries are
installed on your machine. The best way to achieve this is to install them from source. To so
so you can run the following command from the root of the linera repository:

```bash
cargo install --path ./linera-service --bins --features storage-service,proof-verification &
  cargo install --path ./linera-storage-service --bins 
```

From the root of Linera repository, this can be achieved as follows:

```bash
export PATH="$PWD/target/debug:$PATH"
source /dev/stdin <<<"$(linera net helper 2>/dev/null)"
```

To start the local Linera network:

```bash
linera_spawn_and_read_wallet_variables linera net up --testing-prng-seed 37 --
```

We use the test-only CLI option `--testing-prng-seed` to make keys deterministic and simplify our
explanation.

```bash
CHAIN_1=e476187f6ddfeb9d588c7b45d3df334d5501d6499b3f9ad5595cae86cce16a65
OWNER_1=7136460f0c87ae46f966f898d494c4b40c4ae8c527f4d1c0b1fa0f7cff91d20f
```

Now, compile the `counter` application WebAssembly binaries, publish and create an application instance.

```bash
(cd examples/counter && cargo build --release --target wasm32-unknown-unknown)

APPLICATION_ID=$(linera publish-and-create \
  examples/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/counter_{contract,service}.wasm \
  --json-argument "1")
```

We have saved the `APPLICATION_ID` as it will be useful later.

## Using the Counter Application

First, a node service for the current wallet has to be started:

```bash
PORT=8080
linera service --port $PORT &
```

### Using GraphiQL

Type each of these in the GraphiQL interface and substitute the env variables with their actual values that we've
defined above.

- Navigate to the URL you get by running `echo "http://localhost:8080/chains/$CHAIN_1/applications/$APPLICATION_ID"`.
- To get the current value of `counter`, run the query:

```gql,uri=http://localhost:8080/chains/$CHAIN_1/applications/$APPLICATION_ID
    query {
        value
    }
```

- To increase the value of the counter by 3, perform the `increment` operation.

```gql,uri=http://localhost:8080/chains/$CHAIN_1/applications/$APPLICATION_ID
    mutation Increment {
        increment(value: 3)
    }
```

- Running the query again would yield `4`.

### Using web frontend

Installing and starting the web server:

```bash
cd examples/counter/web-frontend
npm install --no-save

# Start the server but not open the web page right away.
BROWSER=none npm start &
```

Web UIs for specific accounts can be opened by navigating URLs of the form
`http://localhost:3000/$CHAIN_1?app=$APPLICATION_ID&owner=$OWNER_1&port=$PORT` where

- the path is the ID of the chain where the account is located.
- the `app` argument is the token application ID obtained when creating the token.
- `owner` is the address of the chosen user account (owner must be have permissions to create blocks in the given
  chain).
- `port` is the port of the wallet service (the wallet must know the secret key of `owner`).

The following command will print the URL of the web UI:

```bash
echo "http://localhost:3000/$CHAIN_1?app=$APPLICATION_ID&owner=$OWNER_1&port=$PORT"
```

<!-- cargo-rdme end -->
